---
title: "T1: Tutorial 1"
sidebar_label: "T1: Tutorial 1"
sidebar_position: 1
---

**Related Lecture:** [L2: Python Basics I](../lectures/l2-python-basics-1)

---

## Learning Objectives

- Getting help in Python
- Read data using Python
- Manipulate data in Python

> **Note:** You will need Python and JupyterLab (or Jupyter Notebook) for most of the tutorials. Make sure you install it on your current laptop.

## Questions

**1.** In this exercise, we will be using the **College** (`College.csv`) dataset. It contains a number of variables for 777 different universities and colleges in the US. The variables are:

| Variable | Description |
|---|---|
| Private | Public/private indicator |
| Apps | Number of applications received |
| Accept | Number of applicants accepted |
| Enroll | Number of new students enrolled |
| Top10perc | New students from top 10% of high school class |
| Top25perc | New students from top 25% of high school class |
| F.Undergrad | Number of full-time undergraduates |
| P.Undergrad | Number of part-time undergraduates |
| Outstate | Out-of-state tuition |
| Room.Board | Room and board costs |
| Books | Estimated book costs |
| Personal | Estimated personal spending |
| PhD | Percent of faculty with Ph.D.'s |
| Terminal | Percent of faculty with terminal degree |
| S.F.Ratio | Student/faculty ratio |
| perc.alumni | Percent of alumni who donate |
| Expend | Instructional expenditure per student |
| Grad.Rate | Graduation rate |

> **Tip:** At any point, you can type `?func` in JupyterLab to see help documentation for functions.

**(a)** Download `College.csv`. Before reading the data, view it in Excel or a text editor.

**(b)** Open Jupyter Notebook and change the working directory to the path where you placed `College.csv`.

**(c)** Use the `pd.read_csv()` function to read the data into a variable `college`.

**(d)** Use the `.head()` function to read the first 3 rows of the `college` dataframe.

**(e)** Retrieve the list of the university names from the `college` dataframe. Display the first 10 university names.

**(f)** In a pandas DataFrame, row identifiers are stored in the index. Retrieve the list of row identifiers (i.e., index values) from the `college` DataFrame. Display the first 10 row identifiers.

**(g)** Ideally, we want to set the row identifiers to the corresponding university names and remove the existing column of university names. What are the commands to do this?

**(h)** What is the total number of applications received? What is the average number of applications received by a university?

**(i)** Obtain the series of university names that received more than 5000 applications. Print the series.

**(j)** What is the average graduation rate for universities that received more than 5000 applications? Is it higher compared with universities that did not receive more than 5000?

**(k)** Which universities have the highest/lowest number of full-time undergrads? Display the university name and their full-time undergrad counts.

---

## Notebook

The worked tutorial notebook with code and outputs:

<iframe
  src="/solutions/tutorials/t1-notebook.html"
  width="100%"
  height="900"
  frameborder="0"
  style="border: 1px solid #e0e0e0; border-radius: 4px;"
></iframe>

## Solution

[View full solution →](./t1-solution)
